The area you live in
1 Do you like the area that you live in now?
2 Do you think the area you live in now is suitable for people of all ages?
3 Are people in your area friendly?
4 How has your area changed in recent years?
5 Do you know any famous people in your area?
6 Where do you like to go in your area?

Study
1. Do you work or are you a student?
2. What subject are you studying?
3. Why did you choose that subject?
4. What would you like to do in the future?
5. What are the most popular subjects in China?
6. Do you think it's important to choose a subject you like?
7. Are you looking forward to working?
8. Do you like your subject? (Why? / Why not?)
9. Do you prefer to study in the mornings or in the afternoons?
10. Is your subject interesting to you?
11. Is there any kind of technology you can use in study?

Work
What work do you do?
Why did you choose to do that type of job?
Do you like your job?
Do you miss being a student?
Is it very interesting?
Is there any kind of technology you use at work?
Can you manage your time well when you work?
Who helps you most at work?

Mirrors
Do you like looking at yourself in the mirror?
Have you ever bought mirrors?
Do you usually take a mirror with you?
Would you use mirrors to decorate your room?

Taking photos
Do you like to take photographs?
How often do you take photos?
Do you want to improve your picture-taking skills?
What is your favorite family photo?

Art
Do you like drawing?
Do you like to go to the gallery?
Do you want to learn more about art?
Did you learn drawing when you were a kid?

Dreams
Do you often remember your dreams?
Do you share your dreams with others?
Do you think dreams have special meanings?
Do you want to make your dreams come true?

Mobile phones
What was your fist mobile phone?
Do you often use your mobile phone for texting or calls?
Will you buy a new one in the future?
How has your mobile phone changed your life?

Emails
Do you often send emails?
When would you send emails to others?
Is sending emails popular in China?
Do you think sending emails will be more or less popular in the future?

Time management
How do you plan your time in a day?
Is it easy to manage time for you?
When do you find it hard to allocate time?
Do you like being busy?

Cinemas
Did you usually go to the cinema when you were a kid?
Do you usually go to the cinema with your friends?
Do you still enjoy watching the movies you loved as a child?
Do you prefer watching movies at home or at the cinema?

Lost and found
What will you do if you find something lost by others?
Do you report to the police when finding something lost by others? Why?
Have you ever lost things?
Will you post on social media if you lose your item?

Websites
What kind of websites do you often visit?
What is your favorite website?
Are there any changes about the websites you often visit?
What kinds of websites are popular in your country?

Sports
Do you like watching sport programs on TV?
Do you like to watch live sports games?
Who do you like to watch sports games with?
What kinds of games do you expect to watch in the future?

Street market
What do people usually buy on the street market?
Do you prefer to go shopping in the shopping mall or on the street market?
When was the last time you went to a street market?
Are there many street markets in China?

Describe someone you really like to spend time with
You should say
Who this person is
How you knew him/her
What you usually do together
And explain why you like to spend time with him/her

What kinds of people are easy to get along with?
How do leaders get along with their subordinates?
Do people have time for themselves nowadays?
Do you like talking with older people? Why?

Describe a person who you follow on social media
You should say
Who he/she is
How you knew him/her
What she/he posts on social media
And explain why you follow him/her on social media

What can people do on social media?
Do you think older people and younger people will use the same kind of social media software?
Do older people spend much time on social media?
Are non-social media like television and newspaper still useful?

Describe a person who contributes to the society
You should say
Who this person is
How you knew her/him
What type of work she/he does
An explain why you think her/his work is useful to the society

What jobs are well-paid?
What are the changes in working conditions?
What are the impacts of the epidemic on the work environment?
Do you think younger people should be lower-paid than older people?

Describe a house or an apartment you would like to live in
You should say
What it is like
Were it would be
Why you would like to live in this house/apartment
And how you feel about this house/apartment

What kinds of apartments are the most popular?
What are the differences between houses that young people and old people like?
What are the differences between apartments and houses?
Do people usually rent or buy a house? Why?

Describe a time you visited a new place
You should say
Where the new place is
When you went there
Why you went there
And explain how you feel about the place

Which do you prefer, living in a city or only visiting it as a tourist?
How do young children react when they go to school for the first time?
How do young and old people react differently to new things?
Why do some people want to go to college far away from home?

Describe a city that you think is very interesting
You should say
Where it is
What it is famous for
How you knew this city
And explain why you think it is very interesting

What advantages can tourism bring to a city?
Why do some young people like to live in cities?
Do most elderly people live in the city or in the countryside?
Do you think well-developed tourism will have negative effects on local people?

Describe a place in a village that you visited
You should say
Where it is
When you visited this place
What you did there
And how you feel about this place

Is there anything special about the villages in China?
Why do people want to go to the countryside?
What do people usually do when going to a village?
Do you think people will live in the village in the future?

Describe a gift you would like to buy for your friend
You should say
What gift you would like to buy
Who you would like to give it to
Why you would like to buy a gift for him/her
And explain why you choose that gift

When do people normally send gifts to others?
Do people give gifts or red pockets on traditional festivals?
Is it hard to choose a gift?
Will people feel happy when receiving an expensive gift?

Describe something you received for free
You should say
What it was
Who you received it from
Where you received it
And how you felt about it

Do you think people should pay for higher education? Why?
Is it good or bad for people to have free education in the future?
What free gifts do companies usually give to their customers?
Why do customers like to receive free gifts from companies?

Describe a lesson that impressed you a lot
You should say
What the course was about
Where you took the course
What you did during the course
And explain why it impressed you a lot

Why do some people have better memory?
Do people like things of memorial significance?
Which can help people remember things better, words or photos?
Can technology help people remember things better? How?

Describe a story someone told you and you remember
You should say
What the story was about
Who told you this story
Why you remember it
And how you feel about it

Do young children like the same stories as older children?
How has technology changed storytelling?
How do people tell stories to children?
Why do children like stories?

Describe a rule that you don’t like
You should say
What it is
Why you don’t like it
How others feel about the rule
And explain whether you’ve followed the rule

What are the rules students should follow at school?
Are the rules at school good or bad? Why?
What rules should children follow at home?
How are people punished when parking at a wrong spot?

Describe an interesting conversation you had with your friend
You should say
Who you spoke with
Where you were
What the conversation was about
And explain why you think it was interesting

When do children normally form their own views?
Do children have strong opinions?
Should parents request their kids to obey them?
In what industries do you think communication is a necessary skill?

Describe a skill that you learned from older people
You should say
What the skill is
Who you learned it from
How you learned it
And how you feel about it

What can children learn from their parents?
What knowledge can children learn from their grandparents?
What kind of help do you think older people need?
What skills can young people learn from older people? 

Describe an item of clothing that someone gave you
You should say
What the clothing was
Who gave it to you
When you got it
And explain why this person gave you the clothing

Have you ever given clothes to others?
Why do people dress casually in everyday life but dress formally at work?
What are the advantages and disadvantages of wearing uniforms at work and school?
Why do people from different countries wear different clothing?

Describe special cake you received from others
You should say
When this happened
Where this happened
Who gave you the cake
And explain why it is a special cake

What’s the difference between special food in China and foreign countries?
Is there any food in your country that is eaten at special times or on special occasions?
Why are some people willing to spend a lot of money on meals on special days?
Do you think it is good ti communicate when eating with your family? 

Describe an interesting song
You should say
What the song is
What story the song tells
Whether the song is popular
And explain why you think it is interesting

Why are many music competitions popular in China?
What kinds of music do young people like?
What kings of people like traditional music?
What are the differences between live concert and online concert?

Describe a long walk you ever had
You should say
When this happened
Where you walked
Who you were with
And explain how you felt about this long walk

What outdoor activities do people like?
What are the differences between the outdoor activities children did in the past and now?
Is leisure time important to everyone? Why?
Do women have more leisure time than men?

Describe a thing you did to learn another language
You should say
What language you learned
What you did
How it helped you learn the language
And how you felt about it

What difficulties do people face when learning a language?
Do you think language learning is important? Why?
Which is better, to study alone or to study in a group? Why?
What’s the best way to learn a language?

Work or study
What work do you do?
Do you like your job?
Why did you choose to do that type of work(or, that job)?
Is it interesting?
Do you miss being a student?
What subjects are you studying?
Why did you choose to study that subject/ Why did you choose to study those subjects?
Do you like your subject?
Do you prefer to study in the mornings or in the afternoons?
Are you looking forward to working?

Hometown
What's the name of your hometown?
Is that a big city or small place?
Please describe your hometown a little. How long have you lived there?
Do you like living there?
What do you like (most) about your hometown?
Is there anything you dislike about it?
Do you think you’ll continue living there for a long time? Do you plan to continue living
there?
Where would you like to live?

Home/Accommodation
Who do you live with?
How long have you lived there?
Do you plan to live there for a long time?
Can you describe the place where you live?
Which room does your family spend most of the time in?
What is the difference between where you are living now and where you have lived in
the past?
Do you prefer living in a house or a flat?
In the future, what type of place would you like to live in?
What kind of neighborhood/environment/ surroundings/ home would you like to live in?
What do you usually do in your house/flat/room?

Weather
What kind of weather do you like most?
What’s the weather like in your hometown?
Do you like the weather in your hometown?
Do you prefer dry or wet weather?

App
What apps have you recently used?
What kinds of apps are you usually interested in?
What was the first app you used?
What kinds of apps would you like to use in the future?

Pets & animals
What`s your favorite animal? Why?
Where do you prefer to keep your pet, indoors or outdoors?
Have you ever had a pet before?
What is the most popular animal in China?

Getting lost
Have you ever lost your way?
How can you find your way when you are lost?
Can you read a map when you get lost?
Have you ever helped someone who got lost?

Science
Do you like science?
When did you start to learn about science？
Which science subject is interesting to you?
What kinds of interesting things have you done with science?

Headphones
Do you use headphones?
What type of headphones do you use?
When would you use headphones?
In what conditions would you not use headphones?

Colours
What’s your favorite colour?
What’s the colour you dislike? Why?
What colours do your friends like most?
What colour makes you uncomfortable in your room?

Public gardens and parks
Would you like to play in a public garden or park？
What would you like to do when visiting a park?
How are the parks today different from those you visited as a kid?
Would you prefer to play in a personal garden or public garden?

Handwriting
Do you like handwriting?
Do you think handwriting is important?
Which do you prefer, handwriting or typing?
What are the differences between handwriting and typing?

Shoes
Do you like buying shoes? How often?
Have you ever bought shoes online?
How much money do you usually spend on shoes?
Which do you prefer, fashionable shoes or comfortable shoes?

Concentration
Is it difficult for you to stay focused on something?
What do you do to help you concentrate?
What may distract you when you’re trying to stay focused?
When do you need to be focused?

Spending time with others
Do you like talking with people?
How do you like spending time with others？
Would you prefer to study alone or with others?
Do you remember a time when you need to cooperate with others?

Describe a famous athlete you know
You should say
Who he/she is
How you knew him/her
What he/she has achieved
And explain why he/she is famous

What kinds of exercise do Chinese people like?
What characteristics do you think an athlete should have?
Why are there so few top athletes?
What’s the best way to become a top athlete?

Describe a creative person whose work you admire
You should say
Who he/she is
How you knew him/her
What creative things he/she has done
And explain why you think he/she is creative

Do you think you are a creative person?
Is it good for children to learn arts?
What kinds of jobs require people to be creative?
Do you think leaders need to have creative ability?

Describe a businessman you admire
You should say
Who this person is
How you knew this person
What kinds of business this person does
And explain why you admire this person

What do you think is the retirement age for men and women?
What kinds of qualities do people need to run their own business?
What do you think are the key factors that contribute to the success of a business?
If you have the opportunity to have your own business, what business would it be? Why?

Describe a person who impressed you most in your primary school
You should say
Who he/she is
How you knew him/her
Why he/she impressed you most
And explain how you feel about him/her

Why do people always miss their childhood?
Are kids happier than adults? Why?
Why do people still remember many of their friends from primary school?
What kinds of primary school teachers will impress students?

Describe a person who gave a clever solution to a problem. You should say
Who this person is
What the problem was
How he/she solved it
And explain why you think it was a clever solution

Do you think children are born with certain degree of cleverness? Or their intelligencecan be nurtured?
What can school do to students’ intellectual development?
Why do you think some people are really good at something?
Why do different kinds of intelligence are needed in this modern society?

Describe a foreign person who you have heard or known that you think is interesting
You should say
Who the person is
How you knew him/her
What kind of person she/he is
And explain why you think he/she is interesting

Do you have any foreign friends and do you think having foreign friends is a good way
to know other countries?
Do you think it is important to know the culture and language before going to another
country?
What do you think of people who work in international companies?
What abilities do people need to have when working in an international company?

Describe a time you were friendly to someone you didn’t like
You should say
When and where it happened
Who he/she was
Why you didn’t like this person
And explain why you were friendly to him/her on that occasion

Why are people friendly with the person they don’t like?
What kinds of people are usually friendly?
What are the differences between being friendly and being polite?
What do you think of the people who are always straightforward?

Describe a time when you felt proud of a family member
You should say
When it happened
Who the person is
What the person did
And explain why you felt proud of him/her

When would parents feel proud of their children?
Should parents reward children? Why and how?
Is it good to reward children too often? Why?
On what occasions would adults be proud of themselves?

Describe a difficult decision that you once made
You should say
What the decision was
When you made your decision
How long it took to make the decision
And explain why it was difficult to make

What decisions do people usually make in their daily lives?
Which is easier, making a decision by yourself or making a decision after group
discussion?
Why are many young people unwilling to follow their parents’ advice?
Why would middle-aged people tend to second-guess their own decisions?

Describe a time when you waited for something special that would happen
You should say
What you waited for
Where you waited
Why it was special
And explain how you felt while you were waiting

On what occasions do people usually need to wait?
Who behave better when waiting, children or adults?
Compared to the past, are people less patient now? Why？
What are the positive and negative effects of waiting on society?

Describe a time when you moved to a new home or school
You should say
When it happened
Where you moved
Why you moved
And explain how you felt about it

Why do people move to a new home?
What problems will people face after moving to a new place?How do people solve these
problems?
Is it good to move to a new place frequently? Why？
What are the advantages and disadvantages of living in the same place?

Describe a difficult thing you did
You should say
What it was
How you did/completed it
Why it was difficult
And how you felt about doing it

What kinds of jobs require people to be confident?
On what occasions should children be encouraged? How?
How do you help children stay focused?
What challenges do young people face today?

Describe a skill that was difficult for you to learn
You should say
When you learned it
Why you learned it
How you learned it
How you felt when you learned it

What skills do students need to master?
Is it hard for students to learn new skills?
Is it hard for old people to learn new skills?
Is a good teacher very important for students’ learning experience? Why?

Describe something that you are interested to learn or improve
You should say
What it is
How you will learn or improve it
Why you are interest in it
And explain how you feel about learning it

Is it hard for adults to continue learning? Why?
Is it the government’s responsibility to assist people to learn?
What are the differences between education in the past and now?
What are the advantages and disadvantages of distance learning?

Describe a good service you received
You should say
What the service was
When you received it
Who you were with
And how you felt about it

What do you think of the relationship between companies and customers?
As a customer, what kinds of services would you expect to receive from a company?
What kinds of jobs involve coping with the public?
Why should companies react quickly when customers have difficulties?

Describe a habit your friend has and you want to develop
You should say
Who your friend is
What habit she/he has
When you noticed this habit
And explain why you want to develop this habit

What habits should children have?
What should parents do to teach their children good habits?
What influences do children with bad habits have on other children?
Why do some habits change when people get older?

Describe an exciting book that you enjoy reading
You should say
When you read it
What kind of book it is
What it is about
And explain why you think it is exciting

Do you prefer books or movies?
Do you think it is very important to read the book before watching the movie version of
it?
Do boys and girls like the same kinds of books?
What kinds of books do Chinese people like reading?

Describe a cafe you like to visit
You should say
Where it is
What kinds of food and drinks it serves
What you do there
And explain why you like to go there

What kind of people would like to go to a cafe?
Why do young people like studying in a cafe instead of at home?
Do old people like to drink coffee?
Do Chinese people like to drink coffee?

Describe a bicycle/ motorcycle/ car trip you would like to go
You should say
Who you would like to go with
Where you would like to go
When you would like to go
And explain why you would like to go by bicycle/ motorcycle/ car

Which form of vehicle is more popular in your country, bikes, cars or motorcycles?
Do you think air pollution comes mostly from mobile vehicles?
Do you think people need to change the way of transportation drastically to protect the
environment?
How are the transportation systems in urban areas and rural areas different?

Describe a place you visited on vacation
You should say
Where it is
When you went there
What you did there
And explain why you went there

What are some popular attractions that people like to visit in your country?
Do old people and young people choose different places to go on vacation? Why?
What do young people and old people think about when making travel plans?
How do people find out about a new place?

Describe a time when you got up early
You should say:
When it was
What you did
Why you got up early
And how you felt about it

Do you know anyone who likes to get up early?
Why do people get up early?
What kinds of occasions need people to arrive early?
Why do some people like to stay up late?
Is it easier for old people to get up early than young people?

Describe an item on which you spent more than expected
You should say
What it is

How much you spent on it
Why you bought it
And explain why you think you spend more than expected

Do you often buy more than you expected?
What do you think young people spend most of their money on?
Do you think it is important to save money? Why?
Do people buy things they don’t need?