I am going to talk about the unusual meal I had. The unusual meal I am going to tell you is what I ate with my best friend before graduation. He and I shared the same room and our beds were set together. During the college, we play basketball together, study together and even help each other find our true loves. Oh, a lot of happy memory. The meal was in the evening before graduation. Next day, we would pursue our own courses. He would go to Xia' men, a southern city in China, to teach in a university, while I would stay here and start my work. We were parted thousands of miles, so that meal was very likely to be our last meal in several years, and it is. Instead of eating in a restaurant, we bought some food and beer and came back to the dormitory where we lived for four years. We ate, drank and talked. We talked about our ambitions, expectations, lives, and paths ahead until about 4 o' clock in the morning. Then we packed our baggage. He embarked on his way to Xia' men. I took a bus to my small rented room. In fact, the food that day was not so good, but I always remember this meal and it resurfaces in my memory now and then. After all, it symbolized the end of my college and precious friendship.

I'm going to talk about the audio mill. I had the audio mill. I am going to tell you is what I had with my best friend before graduation. He and I shared the same room and our beds were set together. During the college, we played basketball together and started together and even helped each other find out true love. Old, a lot of happy memory. The mill was in the evening before graduation. Next day, we will present our own courses. He will go to the South Central City in China to teach in a university while I will stay here and start my work. We were parted thousands of miles so the mill was likely to be our last mill in several years. Since it is, instead of eating in a restaurant, we bought some foods and beers and came back to the dormitory where we lived for four years. We had drink and talk. We talked about our ambitions, expectations, lives and paths ahead until about four o'clock in the morning. The article is from Laokkaya website. Do not copy or post it. When we packed our baggage, he imposed on his way to Xiaoman. I took a bus to our small dentist room. In fact, the food that day was not that good. But I always remember this mill and it resurfaced in my memory now and then after all, it symbolized the end of our college and precious friendship.

 I'm going to talk about the unusual meal I had. The unusual meal I'm going to tell you is what I had with my best friend before graduation. He and I shared the same room and our beds were set together. During the college, we played basketball together, studied together, and you wouldn't help each other find out true love. Oh, there's lots of happy memories. The meal was in the evening before graduation. The next day, we will pursue our own courses. He will go to Xia Men's southern city in China to teach a university while I will stay here and start my work. We were parted thousands of miles, so that meal was very likely to be our last meal in several years. And it is instead of eating in a restaurant, we bought some food and beer, and we had come back to the dormitory where we lived for four years. We ate, drank, and talked. We talked about our ambitious expectations, lives, and parts had until about four o'clock in the morning. Then we packed our package. He embossed on his way to Xia Men. I took a bus to my small rental room. In fact, the food that day was not so good, but I always remember this meal and his resurface in my memory now and then. After all, it symbolized the end of our college and precious friendship.